---
layout: homepage
---

## About Me

Hello, I am Yichi Zhang 张亦弛, an undergraduate student at Zhejiang University, majoring in Information Engineering and minoring in Computer Science and Technology. Currently, I am taking courses in my third year and participating in research work at [NESA Lab](https://nesa.zju.edu.cn/), under the guidance of Professor [Xiaogang Xu](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=R65xDQwAAAAJ&hl=zh-CN&oi=ao) and Professor [Shouling Ji](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=5HoF_9oAAAAJ&hl=zh-CN&oi=ao).

<!-- 我是张亦弛，一名浙江大学的本科生，在信息与电子工程学院主修信息工程，在计算机科学与技术学院辅修计算机科学与技术专业。目前我正在修读大三的课程，同时在NESA Lab参加科研工作，我接受徐晓刚教授和纪守领教授的指导。 -->

My research interests mainly include **Machine Learning**, as well as **Privacy and Security** issues in machine learning. In the past three months, I have been working on detecting images generated by high-quality image generators, to prevent users from suffering privacy leakage and property loss caused by fake images. On this problem, I have made my first work achievement, DNF. DNF leverages the estimation noise generated for images during the diffusion process, and can successfully detect images generated by DALL·E, Midjourney, Stable Diffusion, etc. In the following time, I will focus on the data poisoning backdoor attack problem in machine learning, and try to make novel enough work to prove my ability.

<!-- 我的研究兴趣主要包含机器学习以及机器学习中的隐私与安全问题。在过去的三个月中，我致力于检测由高质量图像生成器生成的图像，防止用户遭受因虚假图像造成的隐私泄露和财产损失问题。在这个问题上，我做出了我的第一份工作成果，DNF。DNF借助扩散过程中针对图像产生的估计噪声，能够顺利地检测诸如DALL·E, Midjourney，Stable Diffusion生成的图像。在接下来的时间里，我将专注于机器学习中的数据投毒后门攻击问题，尝试做出足够novel的工作来证明我的能力。 -->

If you are interested in me or my research, please feel free to contact me at yichics02@gmail.com.

<!-- 如果你对我或者我的研究感兴趣，欢迎通过yichics02@gmail.com与我联系。 -->

## News

- **[Jan. 2024]** Currently fully preparing for the 2023 winter exam week.
- **[Dec. 2023]** One paper about Generated Image Detection is released on the arXiv.

{% include_relative _includes/publications.md %}

{% include_relative _includes/services.md %}
